[Music]
thorin
and his company are being pursued by
azog
and his orc party following the events
of the previous film
they are ushered along by gandalf to the
nearby home of bayern
a skin changer who can take the form of
a bear that night
azog is summoned to dogel durr by the
necromancer
who commands him to marshal his forces
for war azog then delegates the hunt for
thorin to his son bolg
the following day bayern escorts the
company to the borders of mirkwood
where gandalf discovers black speech
imprinted on an old ruin
this coincides with a telepathic message
from galadriel
urging him to investigate the tombs of
the nazghul
he warns the company to remain on the
path and leaves them
upon entering the forest they lose their
way and are ensnared by giant spiders
bilbo then sets about freeing the
dwarves with the help of his recently
acquired
invisibility ring he subsequently drops
the ring
and first begins to understand its dark
influence after he brutally kills a
creature to retrieve it
the remaining spiders are fended off by
the wood elves
led by toriel and legolas they also
capture the dorbz and bring
thorin before their king thranduil
thorin confronts the elven king about
his neglect of the dwarves of erebor
following smog's attack 170 years
earlier
and is consequently imprisoned with the
other dwarfs bilbo
having avoided capture arranges an
escape using empty wine barrels that are
sent downstream
while being pursued by the wood elves
they are ambushed by bolg and his orc
party
and one of the dwarves named kiely is
wounded with a mortal shaft
they engage in a running three-way
battle down the river but ultimately the
dwarves are able to escape both groups
of pursuers
the randa will then seals off his
kingdom when an orc captive
reveals an evil entity has returned and
is amassing an army in the south
but toriel decides to leave and assist
the dwarves
and legless goes after her meanwhile
gandalf
and radogast go to investigate the tombs
of the nazcool which they find to be
empty
the company is smuggled into asgaroth by
a bargeman called bard
thorin promises the master and the
people of lake town
a share of the mountain's treasure it is
then revealed that bard is a descendant
of the last ruler of dale
and possesses the last black arrow
capable of killing smaug
keely is forced to remain behind tended
to by a few of the other dorms
as the remaining company receives a
grand farewell
meanwhile gandalf travels south to the
ruins of dulgaldur
while radagast leaves to warn galadriel
of their discovery at the tombs of the
nazgul
gandalf finds the ruins infested with
orcs and is ambushed by azog
the necromancer overpowers and defeats
gandalf and reveals himself as sauron
thorin and his remaining company reach
the lonely mountain
where bilbo discovers the hidden
entrance he is sent in to retrieve the
arkhan stone
and while doing so he accidentally
awakens smaug
while conversing with bilbo smaug
reveals his knowledge of both the
dwarves plot to retake the gold
and the return of sauron back in lake
town
bard attempts to bring the black arrow
to the town's launcher as he fears what
may happen when the dwarves enter the
mountain
however he is arrested by the master and
his conniving servant alfred
in the process and gives the arrow to
his son to hide
bolg and his orc party then infiltrate
the town and attack the four dwarfs that
stayed behind
but are quickly dispatched following the
arrival of toriel and
legolas toriel then tends to keely while
keeley is recovering
he openly admires toriel's beauty and
wonders if she loves him
legolas leaves in pursuit of bulg
meanwhile gandalf watches helplessly as
azog and an orc army march from dolgodur
towards the lonely mountain
back inside the mountain during a long
chase bilbo and the dorvs rekindle the
mountain's forge
using smaug's flames to create and melt
a large golden statue
hoping to bury smaug alive in the molten
gold they do so
but smaug emerges from the gold stumbles
out of the mountain
and flies off to destroy lake town as
bilbo watches after him in horror and
despair